>> Kyle Simpson: Now there's some values
within the primitive types that we should
pay attention to.
Some values that we wanna look at.
Specifically we're gonna look at NaN,
which is transliterated as not a number.
Although we'll find out in just a moment.
That's a really terrible name for that.
Both infinity and -infinity,
not all languages have that but
JavaScript definitely has a representation
of both infinity and -infinity.
Some of your intuition about
those might not be the same like
I know we have some math
folks in the crowd.
It may anger you to think how JavaScript
interprets infinity and things like that,
but like for example,
you can technically add up numbers,
and when you overflow the 54 bits,
it just goes to infinity.
That's probably super
annoying to math folks.
[COUGH]
But
these are special values that
we should pay attention to.
Null is a value, as well as a type.
It's the only value in the null type.
Undefined is the only value
in the undefined type.
And I mentioned here, the void operator.
That's an important operator,
but it doesn't get any attention.
That's how you can take any value and
produce the undefined value from it.
So it takes whatever you put in.
Say void true, void function, whatever.
You're gonna get back undefined.
Now there's not a lot of uses for
that, but
there's a couple places that
I've used that in the past.
And then again, something that's gonna
annoy the math folks in the audience.
There's both a +0 and -0.
Now you may think, well, this is crazy.
Right off the bat, see, we have proof
that JavaScript was poorly defined.
Why on Earth would they come up
with this kind of craziness?
None of this is JavaScript invented.
Everything that I just talked about,
the + and -0, and the positive and
negative infinity, that is true of
all IEEE 754 compliant languages.
Which include Ruby, Python, and
about a list of 12 or
15,000 other languages that are out there.
Most languages actually these days
are created to be IEEE 754 compliant.
And JavaScript is just one of them.
So whenever we complain about 0.1 plus
0.2 is not equal to 0.3 or whatever,
has nothing to do with JavaScript.
That's on IEEE.
They chose the floating point
representation that can't
correctly represent numbers in memory
that are floating point numbers.
That's on IEEE, and all JavaScript did
was say we're gonna be compliant to IEEE.
The exact same thing is true.
Some languages try to hide it
a little bit more than others.
But this is just all basic computing
science, discrete mathematics stuff, okay?
So -0, even though that sounds strange and
it's counterintuitive from
a mathematic perspective,
is something that's required by IEEE.
And it turns out there's at least one or
two small used cases where it's helpful,
so we're gonna look at
that in just a moment.
NaN.
Supposedly, NaN stands for not a number.
Let me tell you where
NaN actually comes from.
Any time you try to take a value and
convert it to a number, and
that conversion fails, the resultant value
is to tell you this was an invalid number.
That is the only place
that NaN comes from.
So if we look at this line 1,
we see the divide operator.
The divide operator specifically
designed to do mathematic division,
which means it needs both of
its operands to be numbers.
If you give it something
that's not a number,
we kick in this thing that we're
gonna talk about a lot more.
This implicit coercion thing,
it's gonna try to convert it to a number.
And when you try to
convert "a" to a number,
because we're not telling it what base,
it's gonna assume base ten.
And "a" is not a valid character in base
ten, so it's going to fail to convert it.
Which means it's going to
produce this special value.
We have a term in computing science
we call the sentinel value.
A value that represents some
special characteristic.
We need to give it a special label,
if you will, so
that you know there's
something special about it.
In this case, the specialness is,
it's invalid.
So what are some other options
that we could have used?
If we were to try to go back and
backseat drive on design and language,
what could he have done here?
If you try to convert
something to a number and
it didn't properly convert to a number,
what could we have done?
You could have resulted in false.
But that would be super weird, that you
tried to do a numeric operation and
you ended up with a Boolean value.
That doesn't make any sense.
Null or undefined are similarly weird
results from that type of operation
because they are, in themselves,
distinct different primitive types.
Really, the only resulting type that
a number operation should produce
is a number.
Would we all agree with that?
I hope so.
If you're gonna do a numeric operation,
and
you need a result,
by well better be a number.
Otherwise, what are we doing here?
Why do we even programming?
Okay?
Was it just like programming by guessing?
No, that would be terrible design.
So what's the only other option
if it needs to be a number but
it failed to be a number?
What's the only other option besides
something like the special NaN?
Well we could have thrown an exception.
As a matter of fact, many languages do.
If you try to convert "a" to
an integer in c, you get an exception.
If you try to do it in Java,
you get an exception.
Why didn't JavaScript choose
to make an exception here?
Well, you may not know about
the history of JavaScript, but
JavaScript didn't get the try catch and
exception handling until four years later.
First four years of JavaScript
did not have a try catch or
any notion of handling exceptions.
So this would have been a fatal,
crash your program, kind of an error,
unrecoverable.
That's kind of unfriendly design.
So JavaScript chose as a design aesthetic,
early on,
to try to be as forgiving as possible.
We're gonna see this design aesthetic
over and over and over again.
That there was an intentional decision
at the beginning of the language to say,
let's try not to just frustrate the crap
out of people where there's just error
after error after error and
there's no hope of getting anything done.
JavaScript in a sense was playing
kind of a marketing game.
They were trying to convince people
in real programming languages.
Hey, come try out this toy
language called JavaScript.
One of the best ways I can think of to
attract people is to not frustrate them
by they're being a nuance like
you need a semicolon here or
you need a comma there or whatever.
Try to be as forgiving as we
possibly can while still being sane.
And implicit coercion is a nod to that,
as a matter of fact.
It's a nod to saying instead
of throwing an exception and
just slapping somebody down and
saying sorry, try again.
We're saying let's figure out
what's the best that we can do.
Is there any kind of
guess that we could make?
You did something dumb, but
could we try to recover it?
Instead of garbage in, garbage out,
it's like garbage in,
recycled material out, right?
Let's try to figure out
the best that we can do here.
So, we needed a value to represent
that this number conversion failed.
And NaN is that value.
NaN is the value that says,
number conversion failed.
Okay?
So it hasn't even happened that
the divide has occurred on line 1.
It's just the case that we tried
to convert and that failed.
So now we have a NaN divided by 2 and NaN
with anything else is gonna produce NaN.
NaN times NaN,
NaN divided by, whatever you do, if NaN
is part of it, NaN is gonna come out.
It's just like the invalidating
[COUGH] of all values.
So of course a has
the value NaN on line 3.
And if we ask for the type of a, we get
"number" because that's the only sensible
result is that we did a numeric operation,
we got a number back.
But now we find the conflict
with calling NaN not a number,
because we say the type of not a number
is number, and that makes no sense.
The only proper response here,
is to stop calling it not a number.
That's not what it should be referred to.
If I could go back and change it,
I'd call it the invalid number,
cuz that's what it is.
I call it IN instead of NaN.
I'd call it the invalid number, okay?
That's what it really is.
Now, NaN, again because of IEEE,
this is all required by IEEE.
NaN, [COUGH] there's actually
a bunch of NaN values and
the way you get at them differently,
like the bit patterns
form can be different depending
on your scenario, whatever.
So there's a requirement in IEEE
that NaN is never equal to itself.
Which sounds bizarre because it's
literally the only value that I'm aware of
in all of computing science,
that does not have the identity property.
It is not equal to itself.
We're gonna actually make use of that
identity property in just a moment, but
NaN is never equal to itself.
So if you wanna test for NaN, you're
gonna need a special privileged utility.
And they gave us isNaN.
It's built into the global space.
We get isNaN or
window.isNaN or global.isNaN.
Supposedly, it just
tests to see whether or
not the thing you pass
in is the NaN value.
Unfortunately, there's a fatal
flaw in that original utility.
A bug that we can't fix,
cuz we already just discussed,
as soon as we make mistakes.
Let's write them in stone.
We can't fix this bug.
Because if I pass in isNaN and
I pass in "foo".
Now let me ask you a question,
is "foo" a number?
No.
Is it not a number?
You see the difference?
See the problem with using not
a number as our description?
It is not the special, sentinel,
invalid number type, and yet
we're gonna get true back from isNaN
because you know what isNaN does?
If you pass something that's not already
a number to isNaN, guess what it does?
It tries to convert it to a number first.
And then check to see if
it resulted in the NaN.
Here is a place where that conversion
was a pretty terrible idea.
We should never have tried to convert it.
You should have just taken it and
checked that and be done with it, right?
But unfortunately they automatically
convert first before checking so
by the time it checks it, we've already
converted "foo" to the NaN value and
it says sure, that's a NaN.
Fatal flaw.
So this is a bug in isNaN.
Now, thankfully,
we finally decided to fix it by
making a new isNaN in a different space,
Number.isNaN.
Number.isNaN does exactly what we want,
which is it checks only the value,
doesn't allow that coercion.
This is what we call the polyfill pattern.
You notice I've got an if statement
that checks to make sure it's not
already defined.
And that code would only be
true in older environments, so
we're basically patching an older
environment to have something that's been
added in newer environments,
like for example, ES6.
And you notice what is NaN does here,
it just says typeof num == "number".
So at first, checks to make sure
it's already of that number type and
then it uses the isNaN.
So really the true NaN is only gonna
pass if both of those are the case.
So that's an easy way of polyfilling.
The new built-in Number.isNaN.
If you're using regular isNaN in your
checks, switch to using Number.isNaN so
you don't have those bugs, okay?
Cuz if you're not already accounting for
this problem, the fact is you have a bug
in your current JavaScript programs,
even if you've never been bitten by it.
Just a bug that's been
built into JavaScript.
Turns out there's an even easier, and
perhaps even cleaner way of testing for
NaN.
NaN is the only value that's
never equal to itself.
So if we test the value
to be equal to itself,
NaN is the only one where that will fail.
All right, so that is NaN and
that's how we deal with the NaN.
Again, we check to see if these values,
not equal to itself is the only one
without that identity property.